Network allows containers to talk to each other.
Let us consider 2 cases:
1. There are 2 container which can talk to talk to each other.
2. There is an islotaion between 2 containers and they cannot talk to each other.

Types of Network in Containers:
1. Bridge network.
2. Host network.
3. Overlay network

1. Bridge network
When a host is created, by default "eth0" is created and similarly when a container or any other resouce is created, an "eth0" of the resource is also created. So, the docker createas a "Virtual Ehernet" or "Veth0" which connects the "eth0" of the host to "eth0" of the container and they talk to each other.

Since the subnet of both the host eth0 and container eth0 are different, it requires Veth0 to coneect. 
If you inspect the container's network section, you will see the IP address are different for both the containers. 
But since they want to talk to host, they need Veth.
This is called Bridge network, since Bridge is required for containers to talk to host and this is the DEFAULT Network.

2. Host network
In host network, the containers are binded to the host eth0 keeping all the containers and the host in the same network.

This is not recommended and very problamatic, since the concept of containers was to isloate them and use minimum system dependencies.
If container is in the same network as host, then hacker can hack the host and hack the container as well. 

The above 2 methods can cause 2 containers to talk to each other.

But if you don't want your containers to talk to each other which is case 2, then you can create your custom network.
So now, instead of using Veth0 created by docker, you will use your custom docker network. So, now your containers cannot talk to each other.

Commands:

1. To create custom network:
docker network create <network_name>

2. To assign the network to the container
docker run -d --network <network_name> <image_name>

3. To assign host network:
docker run -d --network=host <image_name>

In Host network, the ip of containers will b empty, since they are in same network as host.
